Simplify Template operator folder structure and create E2E guide (#280)
kyma-project/lifecycle-manager: samples/template-operator/README.md

  * [Deploying Kyma Infrastructure Operators with `kyma alpha deploy`](#deploying-the-kyma-infrastructure-operators-with-kyma-alpha-deploy)
  * [Deploying a `ModuleTemplate` into the control-plane](#deploying-a-moduletemplate-into-the-control-plane)
  * [Debugging the Operator Ecosystem](#debugging-the-operator-ecosystem)
  * [Registering your Module within the Control-Plane](#registering-your-module-within-the-control-plane)

## Understanding Module Development in Kyma 

Before going in-depth, make sure you are familiar with:

- [Modularization in Kyma](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/tree/main/concepts/modularization)
- [Operator Pattern in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/)

This Guide serves as comprehensive Step-By-Step tutorial on how to properly create a module from scratch by using an operator that is installing a Helm Chart. 
Note that while other approaches are encouraged, there is no dedicated guide available yet and these will follow with sufficient requests and adoption of Kyma modularization.

Every Kyma Module using an Operator follows 5 basic Principles:

> - Declared as available for use in a release channel through the `ModuleTemplate` Custom Resource in the Control-Plane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Declared as available for use in a release channel through the `ModuleTemplate` custom resource in the Control Plane
```

Author: see above

> - Declared as desired State within the `Kyma` Custom Resource in Runtime or Control-Plane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Declared as desired state within the `Kyma` custom resource in Runtime or Control Plane
```

Author: Custom Resource is a kubernetes definition so I will leave it capitalized. I will change all occurrences from Control-Plane to `control-plane` and Runtime to `runtime`

> - Installed / Managed in the Runtime by Module-Manager through the `Manifest` Custom Resource in the Control-Plane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Installed / managed in the Runtime by [Module-Manager](https://github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/tree/main/) through a `Manifest` custom resource in the Control Plane
```

> - Owns at least 1 CRD that is able to define the Contract that can configure its Behavior

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Owns at least 1 CRD that defines the contract snd configures its behaviour
```

- Is operating on at most 1 Runtime at every given time

> Release channels let customers try new modules and features early, and decide when the updates should be applied. For more info, see the [relevant Documentation in our Modularization Overview](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/tree/main/concepts/modularization#release-channels).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release channels let customers try new modules and features early, and decide when the updates should be applied. For more info, see the [release channels documentation in our Modularization overview](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/tree/main/concepts/modularization#release-channels).
```

> In case you are planning to migrate a pre-existing module within Kyma, please familiarize yourself with the [Transition Plan for existing Modules](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/concepts/modularization/transition.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you are planning to migrate a pre-existing module within Kyma, please familiarize yourself with the [transition plan for existing modules](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/concepts/modularization/transition.md)
```

## Implementation

### Pre-requisites

* A provisioned Kubernetes Cluster and OCI Registry

>   _WARNING: For all use cases in the guide, you will need a cluster for end-to-end testing outside your envtest Integration Test suite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  _WARNING: For all use cases in the guide, you will need a cluster for end-to-end testing outside your envtest integration test suite.
```

>   In addition, the default settings used in the guide use standard values coming from our guides for cluster provisioning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In addition, the default settings used in this guide taken over from [cluster provisioning guide](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/docs/developer/provision-cluster-and-registry.md#local-cluster-setup).
```

>   Thus, we HIGHLY RECOMMEND you should use our [Guide on Cluster and OCI Registry Provisioning for the Operator Infrastructure](../../docs/developer/provision-cluster-and-registry.md) for a smooth development process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This guide is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED to be followed for a smooth development process.
```

>   This is a good alternative if you do not want to use an entire control-plane infrastructure and still want to properly test your operators._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is a good alternative if you do not want to use an entire Control Plane infrastructure and still want to properly test your operators._
```

    ```shell
    kubebuilder create api --group operator --version v1alpha1 --kind Sample --resource --controller --make
    ```

3. Run `make manifests`, to generate CRDs respectively.

A basic kubebuilder operator with appropriate scaffolding should be setup.

#### Optional: Adjust default config resources
If the module operator will be deployed under same namespace with other operators, differentiate your resources by adding common labels.

1. Add `commonLabels` to default `kustomization.yaml`, [reference implementation](config/default/kustomization.yaml).

2. Include all resources (e.g: [manager.yaml](config/manager/manager.yaml)) which contain label selectors by using `commonLabels`.

Further reading: [Kustomize built-in commonLabels](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/blob/master/api/konfig/builtinpluginconsts/commonlabels.go)
   
### Default (declarative) Reconciliation and Status handling

_Warning: This declarative approach to reconciliation is inherited from the [kubebuilder declarative pattern](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder-declarative-pattern).

> It is meant to ease development for newcomers to controller implementations and provides easy to use best-practices for simple use cases. For more complex scenarios, **DO NOT USE** our declarative pattern but build your own reconciliation loop._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It eases the controller implementation effort of developers, covering simple use cases based on best practices . For more complex scenarios, **DO NOT USE** our declarative pattern but build your own reconciliation loop instead._
```

   This `Status` type definition is sourced from the `module-manager` declarative library and contains all valid `.status.state` values as discussed in the previous sections.
   You can embed it into your existing status object:
   ```go
    package v1alpha1
    import (
        "github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/operator/pkg/types"
        metav1 "k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/apis/meta/v1"
    )
    // Sample is the Schema for the samples API
    type Sample struct {
    metav1.TypeMeta   `json:",inline"`
    metav1.ObjectMeta `json:"metadata,omitempty"`
    
        Spec   SampleSpec   `json:"spec,omitempty"`
        Status types.Status `json:"status,omitempty"`
    }
   ```

2. Ensure the module CR's API definition implements the `module-manager` declarative library's resource `.status` interface requirements, represented by `types.CustomObject`. Also implement missing interface methods.
   ```go
    package v1alpha1
    import (
        "github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/operator/pkg/types"
        metav1 "k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/apis/meta/v1"
    )
    // Sample is the Schema for the samples API
    type Sample struct {
    metav1.TypeMeta   `json:",inline"`

>     metav1.ObjectMeta `json:"metadata,omitempty"`

Reviewer: indentation

        client.Client
        Scheme *runtime.Scheme
    }
    ```
   _WARNING: Notice there is no `Reconcile()` method implemented in our referenced controller, since the logic is abstracted within the declarative reconciler.
   If you add `declarative.ManifestReconciler` into a plain controller, the declarative `Reconcile` method would be overwritten, so make sure to delete the old method in case you want to use the default logic._
   
   Now, you will still be left with some steps to make our reconciler run with our declarative setup.

2. As part of the controller's `SetupWithManager()` in the Sample CR [controller implementation](controllers/sample_controller.go), we now have to tell the declarative reconciler how to reconcile the object.
   For this, we need to inject the necessary information about the declarative intention on what to reconcile with `Inject(...)`.

   In its most simple form, the new Setup could look like this (assuming all the settings from above were used):

   ```go
    package controllers
    import (
	    "github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/operator/pkg/declarative"

>         metav1 "k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/apis/meta/v1"

Reviewer: indentation

	    "sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/client"
	    ctrl "sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime"
	    "k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/runtime"
   
	    operatorv1alpha1 "github.com/kyma-project/test-operator/operator/api/v1alpha1"
    )
   
    // SampleReconciler reconciles a Sample object
    type SampleReconciler struct {
      declarative.ManifestReconciler
      client.Client
      Scheme *runtime.Scheme
    }
   
    // SetupWithManager sets up the controller with the Manager.
    func (r *SampleReconciler) SetupWithManager(mgr ctrl.Manager) error {
    if err := r.Inject(

>       mgr, &operatorv1alpha1.Sample{},

Reviewer: This is already linked below

>       declarative.WithCustomResourceLabels(map[string]string{"sampleKey": "sampleValue"}),

Reviewer: This also exists already

      declarative.WithResourcesReady(true),
      declarative.WithFinalizer("sample-finalizer"), 
    ); err != nil {
      return err
    }
    
    return ctrl.NewControllerManagedBy(mgr).
	    For(&operatorv1alpha1.Sample{}).
	    Complete(r)
    }
   ```
   These options can be used to modify manifest installation and uninstallation. Some options are applied as a manifest pre-processing step and others as post-processing.
   More details on these steps can be found in the [options documentation](https://github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/blob/main/operator/pkg/declarative/options.go) or in the reference implementation.

> 3. A **mandatory** requirement of this reconciler is to provide the option `declarative.WithManifestResolver(manifestResolver)`, as it holds the chart information to be processed by the declarative reconciler.

Reviewer 2: That is not 100% correct. They can use `declarative.WithManifestResolver(...)` or `declarative.WithDefaultResolver` - one of them need to be used, but not specifically `WithManifestResolver`.

Since if they do not want to hardcode their InstallationSpec values, we gave them the option to include them into their CR. Thus they do not need to come up with an own resolver and can save code duplication, if they do not have a fancy Resolver which needs to do specials operations.
The default resolver will take care of resoling the spec of the CR into a valid InstallationSpec.
```
declarative.WithDefaultResolver(),
```

            ChartPath:   m.chartPath,
            ReleaseName: sample.Spec.Foo,
            ChartFlags: types.ChartFlags{
                ConfigFlags: m.configFlags,
                SetFlags:    m.setFlags,
            },
        }, nil
    }
   
    // SampleReconciler reconciles a Sample object
    type SampleReconciler struct {
      declarative.ManifestReconciler
      client.Client
      Scheme *runtime.Scheme
    }
   
    // SetupWithManager sets up the controller with the Manager.
    func (r *SampleReconciler) SetupWithManager(mgr ctrl.Manager) error {
    if err := r.Inject(
      mgr, &operatorv1alpha1.Sample{},
      // Note that now, we need to add it to the Injection so that it's picked up by the declarative reconciler with `declarative.WithManifestResolver(defaultResolver)`
	  declarative.WithManifestResolver(defaultResolver),
      declarative.WithCustomResourceLabels(map[string]string{"sampleKey": "sampleValue"}),
      declarative.WithResourcesReady(true),
      declarative.WithFinalizer("sample-finalizer"), 
    ); err != nil {
      return err
    }
    
    return ctrl.NewControllerManagedBy(mgr).
	    For(&operatorv1alpha1.Sample{}).
	    Complete(r)

>     }

Reviewer: make it collapsible? https://gist.github.com/pierrejoubert73/902cc94d79424356a8d20be2b382e1ab

Note however, that you need to be careful in designing your reconciliation loop and we recommend getting started with our declarative pattern first.

### Local testing
* Connect to your cluster and ensure `kubectl` is pointing to the desired cluster.
* Install CRDs with `make install`
  _WARNING: This installs a CRD on your cluster, so create your cluster before running the `install` command. See [Pre-requisites](#pre-requisites) for details on the cluster setup._
* _Local setup_: install your module CR on a cluster and execute `make run` to start your operator locally.

_WARNING: Note that while `make run` fully runs your controller against the cluster, it is not feasible to compare it to a productive operator.
This is mainly because it runs with a client configured with privileges derived from your `KUBECONFIG` environment variable. For in-cluster configuration, see our [Guide on RBAC Management](#rbac)._

## Bundling and installation

### Grafana dashboard for simplified Controller Observability

> You can extend the Operator further by using automated dashboard generation for grafana with this enhancement:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can extend the operator further by using automated dashboard generation for grafana.
```

By the following command, two grafana dashboard files with controller related metrics will be generated under `/grafana` folder.

```shell
kubebuilder edit --plugins grafana.kubebuilder.io/v1-alpha
```

> For how to import the dashboard, please read [official grafana guide](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/export-import/#import-dashboard).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on how to import the dashboard, please read [official grafana guide](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/export-import/#import-dashboard).
```

This feature is supported by [kubebuilder grafana plugin](https://book.kubebuilder.io/plugins/grafana-v1-alpha.html).

### RBAC
Make sure you have appropriate authorizations assigned to you controller binary, before you run it inside a cluster (not locally with `make run`).
The Sample CR [controller implementation](controllers/sample_controller.go) includes rbac generation (via kubebuilder) for all resources across all API groups.
This should be adjusted according to the chart manifest resources and reconciliation types.

> A simple Test RBAC Adjustment can be made to your controller in case you want to delay the engineering of necessary RBACs for your controller to a later stage of development:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Towards the earlier stages of your operator development RBACs could simply accommodate all resource types and adjusted later as per your requirements.
```

```go
package controllers
// TODO: dynamically create RBACs! Remove line below.
//+kubebuilder:rbac:groups="*",resources="*",verbs="*"
```

_WARNING: Do not forget to run `make manifests` after this adjustment for it to take effect!_

> ### Prepare & Build module operator image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prepare & build module operator image
```

_WARNING: This step requires the working OCI Registry from our [Pre-requisites](#pre-requisites)_

1. Include the module chart represented by `chartPath` from _step 3_ in [Controller implementation](#steps-controller-implementation) above, in your _Dockerfile_.
[Reference implementation](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/samples/template-operator/operator/Dockerfile):
    ```dockerfile
    FROM gcr.io/distroless/static:nonroot
    WORKDIR /
    COPY module-chart/ module-chart/
    COPY --from=builder /workspace/manager .
    USER 65532:65532
    
    ENTRYPOINT ["/manager"]
    ``` 

2. Build and push your module operator binary by adjusting `IMG` if necessary and running the inbuilt kubebuilder commands.

>    Assuming your Operator Image has the following base settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Assuming your operator image has the following base settings:
```

   * hosted at `op-kcp-registry.localhost:8888/unsigned/operator-images` 

>    * controller image name is `template-operator`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * controller image name is `sample-operator`
```

   * controller image has version `0.0.1`

   You can run the following command
    ```sh

>     make docker-build docker-push IMG="op-kcp-registry.localhost:8888/unsigned/kyma-project.io/module/sample-operator:0.0.1"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    make docker-build docker-push IMG="op-kcp-registry.localhost:8888/unsigned/operator-images/sample-operator:0.0.1"
```

    ```
   
This will build the controller image and then push it as the image defined in `IMG` based on the kubebuilder targets.

### Build and push your module to the registry

_WARNING: This step requires the working OCI Registry, Cluster and Kyma CLI from our [Pre-requisites](#pre-requisites)_

1. The module operator manifests from the `default` kustomization (not the controller image) will now be bundled and pushed.

>    Assuming the settings from [Prepare & Build module operator image](#prepare--build-module-operator-image) for single-cluster mode, and assuming the following module settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Assuming the settings from [Prepare & build module operator image](#prepare--build-module-operator-image) for single-cluster mode, and assuming the following module settings:
```

   * hosted at `op-kcp-registry.localhost:8888/unsigned`
   * generated for channel `stable`
   * module has version `0.0.1`
   * module name is `template`

>    * using an insecure (http instead of https for registry communication), local k3d registry on your machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * for a k3d registry enable the `insecure` flag (`http` instead of `https` for registry communication)
```

   * uses Kyma CLI in `$PATH` under `kyma`
   * a simple `config.yaml` is present for module configuration with the content

     ```yaml
     # Samples Config
     configs:
     ```
     _WARNING: Even though this file is empty, it is mandatory for the command to succeed as it will be bundled as layer!

>      kubebuilder projects by default to not have such a file (it is introduced by modularization) and you will need to create one on your own if not already done._ 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     kubebuilder projects by default do not have such a file (it is introduced by modularization) and you will need to create one on your own if not already done._ 
```

   * the default sample under `config/samples/operator_v1alpha1_sample.yaml` has been adjusted to be a valid CR by setting the default generated `Foo` field instead of a TODO.

     ```yaml
     apiVersion: operator.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
     kind: Sample
     metadata:
       name: sample-sample
     spec:
       foo: bar
     ```

>      _WARNING: The settings above reflect your default configuration for a module. If you want to change this you will have to manually adjust it to different configurations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     _WARNING: The settings above reflect your default configuration for a module. If you want to change this you will have to manually adjust it to different configuration. 
```

     You can also define multiple files in `config/samples`, however you will need to then specify the correct file during bundling._
   * The `.gitignore` has been adjusted and following ignores were added
   
     ```gitignore
     # kyma module cache
     mod
     # generated dummy charts
     charts
     # kyma generated by scripts or local testing
     kyma.yaml
     # template generated by kyma create module
     template.yaml
     ```

>    Now, run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Now, run the following command to create and push your module operator image to the specified registry:
```

   ```sh
   kyma alpha create module kyma-project.io/module/sample 0.0.1 . -w --insecure --registry op-kcp-registry.localhost:8888/unsigned
   ```
   
   _WARNING: For external registries (e.g. Google Container/Artifact Registry), never use insecure. Instead specify credentials. More details can be found in the help documentation of the CLI_
   
   In certain cases (e.g. for demos, testing or in CI), it might make sense to run the `ModuleTemplate` in "control-plane" mode.

>    What this means is that instead of expecting separate control-plane and runtime clusters, we will target a single cluster that holds all infrastructure for the operators and modules.

Reviewer: this can be removed as it is repeated below.

>    In certain cases (e.g. for demos, testing or in CI), it might make sense to run the `ModuleTemplate` in "control-plane" mode.
>    What this means is that instead of expecting separate control-plane and runtime clusters, we will target a single cluster that holds all infrastructure for the operators and modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>    To make a setup work that depends on single-cluster mode you will need to adjust the generated `template.yaml` to install the module in the control-plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To make a setup work in single-cluster mode adjust the generated `template.yaml` to install the module in the Control Plane. This will install all operators and modules in the same cluster.
```

>    To do this edit the field `.spec.target` in the generated `template.yaml` to `control-plane`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: operator.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
   kind: ModuleTemplate
   #...
   spec:
     target: control-plane
   ```

2. Verify that the module creation succeeded and observe the `mod` folder. It will contain a `component-descriptor.yaml` with a definition of local layers.

>     ```yaml

Reviewer: collapsible section?

    component:
      componentReferences: []
      name: kyma-project.io/module/sample
      provider: internal
      repositoryContexts:
      - baseUrl: op-kcp-registry.localhost:8888/unsigned
        componentNameMapping: urlPath
        type: ociRegistry
      resources:
      - access:
          filename: sha256:fafc3be538f68a786f3b8ef39bd741805314253f81cf4a5880395dcecf599ef5
          mediaType: application/gzip
          type: localFilesystemBlob
        name: sample-operator
        relation: local
        type: helm-chart
        version: 0.0.1
      - access:
          filename: sha256:db86408caca4c94250d8291aa79655b84146f9cc45e0da49f05a52b3722d74a0
          mediaType: application/octet-stream
          type: localFilesystemBlob
        name: config
        relation: local
        type: yaml
        version: 0.0.1
      sources: []
      version: 0.0.1
    meta:
      schemaVersion: v2
    ```
   
   As you can see the CLI created various layers that are referenced in the `blobs` directory. For more information on layer structure please reference the module creation with `kyma alpha mod create --help`.
   
## Using your Module in the Lifecycle Manager Ecosystem

> ### Deploying Kyma Infrastructure Operators with `kyma alpha deploy`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploying Kyma infrastructure operators with `kyma alpha deploy`
```

_WARNING: This step requires the working OCI Registry and Cluster from our [Pre-requisites](#pre-requisites)_

> Now that everything is prepared in a cluster of your choosing, you are free to reference the module within any `Kyma` Custom Resource in the Cluster that you prepared earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that everything is prepared in a cluster of your choice, you are free to reference the module within any `Kyma` custom resource in your Control Plane cluster.
```

> Deploy the Lifecycle Manager & Module Manager to the control-plane cluster with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy the [Lifecycle Manager](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/tree/main/operator) & [Module Manager ](https://github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/tree/main/operator)to the Control Plane cluster with
```

```shell
kyma alpha deploy
```

_WARNING: For single-cluster mode, module manager needs additional privileges to work in the cluster as it usually does not need to access all resource types within the control-plane.
This can be fixed by editing the necessary ClusterRole with `kubectl edit clusterrole module-manager-manager-role` with the following adjustment:_
```yaml
- apiGroups:                                                                                                                                                  
  - "*"                                                                                                                                                       
  resources:                                                                                                                                                  
  - "*"                                                                                                                                                       
  verbs:                                                                                                                                                      
  - "*"

> ```

Reviewer: somehow this feels out of place

_Note that this is very hard to properly protect against privilege escalation in single-cluster mode, which is one of the reasons we heavily discourage it for productive use_

> ### Deploying a `ModuleTemplate` into the control-plane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploying a `ModuleTemplate` into the Control Plane
```

> Now run the command for creating the ModuleTemplate in the Cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now run the command for creating the `ModuleTemplate` in the cluster.
```

> After this the module will be available for consumption based on the module name configured with the label `operator.kyma-project.io/module-name` on the ModuleTemplate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this the module will be available for consumption based on the module name configured with the label `operator.kyma-project.io/module-name` on the `ModuleTemplate`.
```

_WARNING: Depending on your setup against either a k3d cluster/registry, you will need to run the script in `hack/local-template.sh` before pushing the ModuleTemplate to have proper registry setup.
(This is necessary for k3d clusters due to port-mapping issues in the cluster that the operators cannot reuse, please take a look at the [relevant issue for more details](https://github.com/kyma-project/module-manager/issues/136#issuecomment-1279542587))_

```sh
kubectl apply -f template.yaml
```

> For single-cluster mode, you could use the existing Kyma Resource generated for the control-plane in `kyma.yaml` with this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For single-cluster mode, you could use the existing Kyma custom resource generated for the Control Plane in `kyma.yaml` with this:
```

```shell
kubectl patch kyma default-kyma -n kcp-system --type='json' -p='[{"op": "add", "path": "/spec/modules", "value": [{"name": "sample" }] }]'
```

This adds your module into `.spec.modules` with a name originally based on the `"operator.kyma-project.io/module-name": "sample"` label that was generated in `template.yaml`:

```yaml
spec:
  modules:
  - name: sample
```

> Note that of course, you can adjust the Kyma CR based on your testing scenario. For example, if you are running a Dual-Cluster Setup, you might want to enable the synchronization of the Kyma Resource into the runtime for E2E configurability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If required, you can adjust this Kyma CR based on your testing scenario. For example, if you are running a dual-cluster setup, you might want to enable the synchronization of the Kyma CR into the runtime cluster for a full E2E setup.
```

> The installation should start immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On creation of this kyma CR in your Control Plane cluster, installation of the specified modules should start immediately. 
```

> ### Debugging the Operator Ecosystem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Debugging the operator ecosystem
```

> Of course, the operator ecosystem around Kyma is highly complex. So complex in fact, that it might become troublesome to debug issues in case your module is not installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operator ecosystem around Kyma is highly complex and it might become troublesome to debug issues in case your module is not installed or installed incorrectly.
```

> For this very reason here is a small help to debug any module developed via this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this very reason here are some best practices on how to debug modules developed through this guide.
```

> 1. Verify the Kyma Installation state is ready by verifying all conditions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify the Kyma installation state is ready by verifying all conditions
```

   ```shell
    JSONPATH='{range .items[*]}{@.metadata.name}:{range @.status.conditions[*]}{@.type}={@.reason}:{@.status};{end}{end}' \
    && kubectl get kyma -o jsonpath="$JSONPATH" -n kcp-system
   ```

> 2. Verify the Manifest Installation state is ready by verifying all conditions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Verify the Manifest installation state is ready by verifying all conditions
```

   ```shell
    JSONPATH='{range .items[*]}{@.metadata.name}:{range @.status.conditions[*]}{@.type}={@.status};{end}{end}' \
    && kubectl get manifest -o jsonpath="$JSONPATH"-n kcp-system
   ```

> 3. Depending on your issue, either observe the Deployment logs from either `lifecycle-manager` and/or `module-manager`. Make sure that no errors occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Depending on your issue, either observe the deployment logs from either `lifecycle-manager` and/or `module-manager`. Make sure that no errors have occurred.
```

> Usually the issue is related to either RBAC Configuration (for troubleshooting minimum privileges for the controllers, see our dedicated [RBAC](#rbac) section), a malconfigured Image and/or Module Registry or a misconfiguration of the `ModuleTemplate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually the issue is related to either RBAC configuration (for troubleshooting minimum privileges for the controllers, see our dedicated [RBAC](#rbac) section), a mis-configured image and/or module registry or a mis-configuration of the `ModuleTemplate`.
```

> In the last case, make sure that you are aware if you are running within a single cluster or with a separate control-plane, and watch out for any Steps with `WARNING` attached to them and retry with a freshly provisioned cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the last case, make sure that you are aware if you are running within a single-cluster or a dual-cluster setup, watch out for any steps with a `WARNING` specified and retry with a freshly provisioned cluster.
```

> For cluster provisioning, please make sure to follow our recommendations for Clusters mentioned in our [Pre-requisites](#pre-requisites) for this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For cluster provisioning, please make sure to follow our recommendations for clusters mentioned in our [Pre-requisites](#pre-requisites) for this guide.
```

> Lastly, if you are still unsure, please feel free to open an Issue and describe what's going on, and we will be happy to help you out with more detailed information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, if you are still unsure, please feel free to open an issue, with a description and steps to reproduce, and we will be happy to help you with a solution.
```

> ### Registering your Module within the control-plane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Registering your module within the Control Plane
```

> For global usage of your module, the generated `template.yaml` from [Build and push your module to the registry](#build-and-push-your-module-to-the-registry) needs to be registered in our control-plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For global usage of your module, the generated `template.yaml` from [Build and push your module to the registry](#build-and-push-your-module-to-the-registry) needs to be registered in our Control Plane.
```

> This relates to [Phase 2 of the Module Transition Plane](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/concepts/modularization/transition.md#phase-2---first-module-managed-by-kyma-operator-integrated-with-keb). Please be patient until we can provide you with a stable guide on how to properly integrate your template.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This relates to [Phase 2 of the module transition plan](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/concepts/modularization/transition.md#phase-2---first-module-managed-by-kyma-operator-integrated-with-keb). Please be patient until we can provide you with a stable guide on how to properly integrate your `template.yaml`
```

> with an automated test flow into the central control-plane Offering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
